Pycharm
• What is CNV/CNA?-->copy number variations/aberrations
abberations= an unusual number of copies, present in most cancer types

• How will you describe or introduce progenetix (scale, data source, cancer types and
so on)?--> goal: individual cancer profiles and associated metadata for more integrative analyses of cancer
publicly accessible gnome data resource

The cancer profile data in Progenetix was curated from 1600 articles and represents 420 and 542 different cancer types, according to the International classification of Diseases in Oncology (ICD-O) and NCIt "neoplasm" classification, respectively. Additionally, the website attempts to identify and present all publications (currently 3962 articles), referring to cancer genome profiling experiments.

• Describe NCIt, ICOD, UBERON codes, and their relationships.
NCIt= National Cancer Institue Thesaurus, 
NCI Thesaurus (NCIt) provides reference terminology for many NCI and other systems. It covers vocabulary for clinical care, translational and basic research, and public information and administrative activities.
ICDO= International Classification of Diseases in Oncology, The International Classification of Diseases for Oncology (ICD-O) is a domain-specific extension of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems for tumor diseases. This classification is widely used by cancer registries.

NCIts are rarely used in primary sample annotations
progenetix has connected NCIt and ICDO in a GitHub repository

• What are CNV segmentations and CNV frequencies, and how to use them?
CNV segmentaitons are the locations in the genome where the CNVs are found
CNV frequencies are the amount of times the variations arrise
• What are APIs and how to use APIs in progenetix?
Beacon is an API (sometimes extended with a user interface) that allows for data discovery of genomic and phenoclinic data.
• How does progenetix visualise CNA profiles?
json or csv document with an overview containing results (genome-wide CNAm different colors for loss and gain), biosamples (discriptions, classifications, external identifiers), biosamples map (geological locations), variants (concatenated format with chromosome, start and eng position, and type of the CNA)
also custom visualization possible (publication title, author names, geographic location of research center
• What do you think should be improved in progenetix?
function of being able to assign the data to a specific date to see progression of genetic variants, allows filtering for CNAs that have only popped up recently

![pic1] ("https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/114056080/191511945-f6efd91c-f508-4061-9527-9e6d536b9a44.png")


![pic2] ("https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/114056080/191511958-0a7ad834-dbe0-43f4-9b34-875eed9f36d2.png")


notes:
GEO=Gene Expression Omnibus
UBERON is a crossspecies system, allows linking multiple databases between model animals and humans

progenetix includes geographic coordinates to each indicvidual sample using GeoNames
progenetix also contains grouping by ancestry, important because genetic background seems to influence tumor development

Cancer dcell lines are important models for understanding the molecular mechanisms of malignant diseases and have a prominent role in pharmacological screening procedures
